Our theme for this month is, consider, insight, and encourage one another all the more so.
JW Broadcasting, why do we enjoy it so much?
Many of you have expressed how the monthly broadcast draws you closer to our brothers
and sisters and to Jehovah's organization.
If you're homebound or isolated, you especially treasure these programs.
And yet, while we appreciate the advances in technology that have made all of this possible,
we know that your sincere desire is to be present with your brothers and sisters in person
at our congregation meetings.
Jehovah's Witnesses around the world share this feeling.
In Northern Finland, for example, winners are especially cold, even by Finnish standards.
At times, temperatures plummet to minus 50 degrees Celsius or minus 58 degrees Fahrenheit.
Under those conditions, it's very difficult to drive much less walk-long distances.
Still, the brothers love to gather together.
How do they manage it?
In one small village, there's a brother who lives near the Kingdom Hall and has a warm garage.
On meeting nights, he uses his car to bring each family in the congregation to the hall,
then he parks in his garage and runs the short distance back to the Kingdom Hall.
When the meeting is over, he returns all the friends safely to their homes.
In the Bible, gatherings for pure worship were occasions for personal association with
fellow believers.
Such association required travel to a designated place.
This involved work, sacrifice, even risk.
Consider what is stated at Exodus chapter 34, verse 24.
This verse has to do with the command that every Israelite male should gather three times
a year for the festivals in Jerusalem.
What would that mean in practical terms?
Wouldn't the nation be left vulnerable to attack if no men were left to guard the land?
And if words spread among the surrounding nations that practically everyone congregated
in Jerusalem three times a year, like clockwork, year after year, wouldn't it be just a matter
of time before some invading army would come and pillage in Israelite city?
At Exodus 34, 24, we find Jehovah's remarkable answer.
For I will drive the nations away from before you, and I will enlarge your territory,
and nobody will desire, yes, even desire your land while you are going up to see the
face of Jehovah your God three times a year.
Jehovah kept that promise.
It's a historical fact that from 1513 BCE, all the way down to 66 CE, no foreign nation
ever came to invade Israelite territory during those three annual festivals.
Jehovah placed high value on having his people gather together in the same space.
In the Christian era, the Apostle Paul wrote at 1 Corinthians 1423 about the whole congregation
coming together to one place.
Now, although modern broadcasting technology didn't exist in those days, there were other
viable methods of communicating, such as writing letters, that didn't require people to
be physically present in the same location.
Still, the Apostle John, though a capable writer, preferred face-to-face interchange with
fellow Christians as he expressed at 2 John 12.
Or consider what is stated at Job 16.
Now the day came when the sons of the true God entered to take their station before Jehovah.
Psalm 21 speaks of another such day.
Just imagine, here Jehovah himself, though having all conceivable methods of communication
at his disposal, set specific days for his spirit creatures in heaven to assemble in his
immediate presence.
Clearly, the scriptures encourage regular personal association with fellow servants of God.
Full attendance through modern communication technology has value, and we're happy to
use it, but it's no substitute for being together.
And why not?
Because of what association with the congregation achieves, it's not just that we receive
nutritious and varied spiritual food, meetings inform us, but so does JW Broadcasting.
Meetings encourage us, but so does JW Broadcasting.
Fellow Christians who offer comments and sing from the heart, build us up.
And yet we can hear that also on JW Broadcasting.
It's when we're together, all together in one place that others can hear us and draw
encouragement from our heartfelt convictions, our smile, our handshake.
Meetings give us opportunities to show our brothers and sisters that we esteem them
as worthy of our time, attention, and concern.
That's why we go and visit our brothers who are homebound or isolated because we want
to show them that we love them.
Moreover, in a special way, our meetings bring us under the influence of Holy Spirit.
At Revelation chapter 2, verse 7, the glorified Jesus said,
Let the one who has an ear hear what the Spirit says to the congregations.
We need that Spirit to help us resist temptation, to embolden and equip us for the ministry,
and to enable us to make sound decisions.
Still, there's a reason to attend meetings that's even more important than the pleasant
company, the peaceful atmosphere, the genuine refreshment, the sense of belonging, the opportunities
to give, or even the fact that meetings are a means by which we receive Jehovah's Holy
Spirit.
The key reason why we gather together is stated at Psalm 2612.
My foot is standing on level ground in the great congregation I will praise Jehovah.
Yes, the principle reason why we gather together in person is to give Jehovah what he deserves,
praise, glory, yes, worship.
Our meeting attendance shows Jehovah that we want to draw close to him and his son.
In his abundant love, Jehovah invites many more to serve him and keep living.
Because he lives eternally, Jehovah can nurture those relationships forever.
The adversary can offer no such hope of endless life, so he promotes selfishness, pride,
and other negative traits that isolate people from one another, even when they're in the
same room, engaged in the same activities.
In contrast, our great God is drawing his people closer to himself, to his son, and to
one another, so that we may all be one, as Jesus prayed, as recorded at John 1721.
And it's not just the act of converging on the same location that unites us either.
Lots of people coexist in the same space when they go to a market, attend a sporting event
or use public transportation.
Crowding of itself does not equate with unity.
What makes the true Christian congregation different?
Notice how Hebrews chapter 10 verses 24 and 25 answers this question.
Now here we find the divinely inspired standard for all our gatherings.
And let us consider one another so as to incite to love and find works.
Not forsaking our meeting together, some have the custom, but encouraging one another,
and all the more so as you see the day drawing near.
Now what does it mean to consider one another?
What does it mean to incite to love and find works?
And in what way might we encourage one another?
The verb consider could also be rendered be concerned about, pay attention to.
So when we consider one another, we show interest that goes far beyond a brief greeting.
And when we pay careful attention to one another, we're better prepared to incite, that
is to motivate one another, to stir one another to action.
And how might we do this?
Not by making comparisons or shaming our brothers for that would hardly be encouraging one
another.
We endeavor to lift one another's hearts when we're together.
And when we do this to the best of our ability, then we can be confident that Jehovah's
Spirit will do the rest and that our brothers will feel strengthened.
It's evident then that true worship means participation.
It requires a response.
Another noteworthy example of this is the encouragement we both give and receive when
we sing together with our brothers and sisters.
In ancient Israel, at times they had a chorus, such as the one described in Nehemiah
chapter 12 that we talked about in our midweek meeting back in February.
Much of Israel's group singing was antifinal, that is, some of the singers prompted others
to respond.
For instance, Psalm 106, which begins and ends with the words Praise Ja, or hallelujah,
encourage the people to say in response, amen.
Psalm 136 was written to allow for different choruses to answer one another.
Now just imagine responding choruses singing these alternating lines.
Give thanks to Jehovah for he is good.
His loyal love endures forever.
Give thanks to the God of God's for his loyal love endures forever.
Give thanks to the Lord of lords for his loyal love endures forever, and on it went for
twenty-six verses.
To this day, singing demonstrates our heartfelt response to the goodness of Jehovah.
And what a joy it is to sing in company with others who are moved to pour out the depths
of their feelings to Jehovah.
And now at our Kingdom Halls, we're accompanied by orchestral renderings of many of our songs
and other reasons to sing out at our midweek and weekend meetings.
And speaking of the midweek meeting, how are you enjoying the new format?
More of the program is devoted to delving into the Bible itself.
Time spent on preparing us for our public ministry focuses more than ever on situations
we face in field service.
And the meetings move along at a satisfying pace.
Yes, JW Broadcasting is a wonderful blessing.
A powerful means to talk to and fortify our brothers around the world simultaneously.
Still, nothing can replace the experience of worshipping Jehovah in concert with our
fellow servants of God at congregation meetings.
When a meeting concludes, and we lift our heads after the final prayer, we find ourselves
surrounded by others who love Jehovah and support his sovereignty.
These important benefits are detailed in the April 2016 study article, why should we
meet together for worship?
This month, we're studying that article worldwide.
Later, in October, we begin a special campaign to invite the public to our meetings.
If you do not yet regularly associate with Jehovah's Witnesses, or if you travel away from
your congregation, use JW.org to find a meeting you can attend.
Click about us, meetings, and find a location near you.
Or simply scroll to the bottom of any JW.org page and click attend our meetings.
At our meetings, you'll experience what it means to consider, insight, and encourage
one another all the more so as we see the day drawing near.